# 2018-06-12 Adv Talk

## Slide 1

At Adventurers over the last couple of months we’ve been thinking about some of the big questions about Life, God, and the bible.

Questions like “Who is God?” “Why did Jesus come to earth?” and today “What is our only hope in life and death?”. {Click}

Now that is a big question, with a big answer. But first, let’s play a game together....

## Slide 2

Now, I love a good tv game show. Shows like “Would I lie to you” and “pointless.” But one of my favourite’s has to be Only Connect. Any Only Connect fans here?

There’s one particular round in Only Connect that I love, even though I am rubbish at it, is the first round... The connections round. In the connections round players are given a series of four things one by one that all have a common link and the players have to guess what the link is.

The sooner the guess the connection the more points they get.

So for example. What do think connects the following things?

If you think you know the answer put up your hand – no shouting out – that goes for you too dads! I’m watching you...

<!-- Run through the list, take answers along the way, give prizes to those who guess. -->

## Slide 3

Now that you’ve got the idea, let’s have a go at Adventurer’s club “Only Connect”. What connects the following things:

1.  Medicine
2.  A seat belt
3.  A crash helmet
4.  A life jacket

What connects these four things. They are all things that can save your life. But will the seat belt save me if I never put it on? And will the medicine save me if I never take it?

No, all these things can save your life if you know what to do with them...

## SLide 4

The bible answers the question “What is our only hope in life and death” by pointing us to Jesus Christ {Slide}. Only Jesus' death on a cross and return life three days later can deal with our sin once and for all. Only he can give us a hope that creates new life now and eternal life when we die.

But like the injection, the seat belt, the crash helmet, and the life jacket are can only save your life if you know what to do with them. Jesus death and return to life can save you if you know what to do with it.

And what we are supposed to do with it is this: We are supposed to be believe it. To weigh up the evidence and come to the conclusion that it is true.

In John’s historical biography of Jesus’ life, in chapter 3, verse 16. John writes that {Slide} “God so loved that world that he gave his one and only son so that whoever believes in him would not perish but have eternal life.”

If you want to know a last hope in life and death, your only hope, then you know what you need to do.... Believe in Jesus death and resurrection.

[End with a plug for Uncover John and football match on Monday 18th June 6:30 for 7pm kick off]
