# Adventures Talk (2018-03-27)

@ 1:14:55 - 1:26:59

## Introduction

Fill in the gaps, between end of last week. Jesus has been taken down from the cross and placed into a tomb, with a large stone set across it. The bible tells us that the tomb was also guarded by soilders to prevent anyone stealing JEsus body.

## Play the Video

@ 1:14:55 - 1:26:59.

## Questions

-   How do Mary feel when she came to the tomb and found it empty?
    -   What did she think had happened?
-   After Mary saw Jesus, she went back and told Peter. What did Peter think of Mary's story at first?
    -   How did he feel after seein Jesus? what did he do next?
-   What did JEsus talk about with the two men on the road to Emmuas?
    -   How did they recognise JEsus?
-   WHat did Thomas think about everything his friends had told him?
-   what convinced him in the end?
-   Who did Jesus say was more blessed "those who've seen him and believed" or those who haven't seen him and yet believe"?
-

This easter I wasn't you think about this. The final test of whether Christianity is true is if Jesus rose from the dead. If the bible can be trusted on JEsus return to life, then it can be trusted on everything else. If JEsus simply died, it changes nothing, but if JEsus rose from the dead then he really is Gd's son, and he really did die to offer you forgiveness, and he really did rise again to offer you friendship with God the Father.

So I'd like to end with a question. I don't want you to put your hand up, I only want you to think about it.

-   What would it take to convince you that Jesus had risen from the dead?
