# True Lovers - Part IV (Song of Songs 5:2-6:13)

## Outline

**Change Statement:** _In marraige... If you want to go the distance, it is going to take persistence_

0.  Introduction
1.  Persistence in adversity (5:2-9)

    -   Internal conflict (5:2-6)
        -   Misunderstanding
        -   Rejection
    -   External conflict (5:7-9)
        -   Abuse
        -   Meddling Friends

2.  Persistence in friendship (5:9-16)

    -   False foundations
        -   Physical attraction
        -   Sex
        -   Children
    -   Friendship is foundational (sustained by faith)
        -   What does friendship look like in marriage?

3.  Persistence in passion (6:1-13)

    -   Sexual passion (6:2-3)
    -   Romantic passion (6:4-12)

4.  'Till Death do us Part

## 'Happily Ever After?'

Let me ask you a question: What's your favourite romantic story? Do you go for something historical like _Pride and Prejudice_? Maybe you perfer romantic films that are bit more off beat like _Forest Gump_ or _Meet the Parents_? What about one that s out of this world like Pixar's _Wallie_. Whatever you tastes there is a romance novel or movie out there for you. Personally, whilst I enjoy Wallie as much as the next dad, I'm not a huge fan or romantic stories myself. I won't lie to you, my favourite novel series ends with everyone thinking the man character is dead and his love interest marries his best friend. But that's just me...

But my opinion is irrelevant, because the romance genre is big business. Do you know that the top 5 most successful romantic films made over 1.7 billion dollars in US box office _ALONE_. To give you some scale, that's about the same as the total UK government spending... for the last two years! 1.7 billion dollars! That'd pay for a couple of extra GPs wouldn't it!

But that's pocket change compared to the most successful romantic film of all time. Would anyone like to guess what it is? Don't be shy, shout it out...

**Slide**

That's right it is Titanic. Released in 1997, Titanic made 2.2 billion dollars at the box office worldwide. Just so you know, that's enough to buy over 600 million McDonald's Happy Meals. Or about three hours in a hospital car park. So clearly, I'm in the minority - people are in love with romance! Despite the fact that you know how it will end, that every plot is almost exactly the same, people still part with their money to watch a the latest film or buy the next paperback.

In some ways, Song of Songs is like a romantic movie - the poetry, the language, the passion - like romantic films the Song is an idealised picture of married life. A 'happily every after' on every page. But in others ways, the Song has greater honesty about what it takes to be true lovers in a sinful and dying world, and what that love will cost them to maintain. That is especially true of our passage this morning. In fact, this morning the Song is going to show us, that **If we want a marriage that goes the distance, it is going to take persistence** {Repeat}

Specifically, it is going to show us that we need...

1.  Persistence in adversity (5:2-9)
2.  Persistence in friendship (5:9-16)
3.  Persistence in passion (6:1-13)

That's what it takes to go the distance.
