# True Lovers - Part IV (Song of Songs 5:2-6:13)

## Outline

**Change Statement:** _If you want to go the distance, it is going to take persistence_

0.  Introduction
1.  Persistence in adversity (5:2-9)

    -   Internal conflict (5:2-6)
        -   Misunderstanding
        -   Rejection
    -   External conflict (5:7-9)
        -   Abuse
        -   Meddling Friends

2.  Persistence in friendship (5:9-16)

    -   False foundations
        -   Physical attraction
        -   Sex
        -   Children
    -   Friendship is foundational (sustained by faith)
        -   What does friendship look like in marriage?

3.  Persistence in passion (6:1-13)

    -   Sexual passion (6:2-3)
    -   Romantic passion (6:4-12)

4.  'Till Death do us Part

## 'Happily Ever After?'

Let me ask you a question: What's your favourite romantic story? Do you go for something historical like _Pride and Prejudice_? Maybe you perfer romantic films that are bit more off beat like _Forest Gump_ or _Meet the Parents_? What about one that s out of this world like Pixar's _Wallie_. Whatever you tastes there is a romance novel or movie out there for you. Personally, whilst I enjoy Wallie as much as the next dad, I'm not a huge fan or romantic stories myself. I won't lie to you, my favourite novel series ends with everyone thinking the man character is dead and his love interest marries his best friend. But that's just me...

But my opinion is irrelevant, because the romance genre is big business. Do you know that the top 5 most successful romantic films made over 1.7 billion dollars in US box office _ALONE_. To give you some scale, that's about the same as the total UK government spending... for the last two years! 1.7 billion dollars! That'd pay for a couple of extra GPs wouldn't it!

But that's pocket change compared to the most successful romantic film of all time. Would anyone like to guess what it is? Don't be shy, shout it out...

**Slide**

That's right it is Titanic. Released in 1997, Titanic made 2.2 billion dollars at the box office worldwide. Just so you know, that's enough to buy over 600 million McDonald's Happy Meals. Or about three hours in a hospital car park. So clearly, I'm in the minority - people are in love with romance! Despite the fact that you know how it will end, that every plot is almost exactly the same, people still part with their money to watch a the latest film or buy the next paperback.

In some ways, Song of Songs is like a romantic movie - the poetry, the language, the passion - like romantic films the Song is an idealised picture of married life. A 'happily every after' on every page. But in others ways, the Song has greater honesty about what it takes to be true lovers in a sinful and dying world, and what that love will cost them to maintain. That is especially true of our passage this morning. In fact, this morning the Song is going to show us, that **If we want to go the distance, it is going to take persistence** {Repeat}

Specifically, it is going to show us that we need...

1.  Persistence in adversity (5:2-9)
2.  Persistence in friendship (5:9-16)
3.  Persistence in passion (6:1-13)

That's what it takes to go the distance. So keep your bible open to Song of Songs chapter 5 and use the outline in bulletin to guide you if it helps.

## 1. Persistence in Adversity (5:2-9)

Firstly then, persistence in adversity.

Know I don't know about you, but one of my all time favourite films is Christopher Nolan's sci-fi hiest movie Inception. The premise of the film is that a group of dody characters, lead by Leonardo DiCapro's "Dom Cobb", kidnap the ceo of a multinational corporation. And using stolen tech infiltrate the Ceo's dreams and implant an idea into his mind.

All the while Dom Cobb battles his own inner-demons. You see he's done this kind of thing so many times that he is now loosing his grip on reality, and all through the film the audience are left trying to work out if what is happening to Dom is real or simply a concotion of his disortistarted immigration. Without ruining the ending, the question that every fan of inception argues heatedly over is this: Is Dom dreaming or did it really happen?

In some ways, Song of Songs 5:2-6:13, and especially 5:2-6:3, are a bit like the movie inception. When we hear the words of the women in 5:2 say "I was sleeping, but heart was awake." We are left thinking "what exactly is going on here? Is this a dream or isn't?" On one level some might say well what does it matter? In the same way some will watch inception and say 'who cares it's just a film' other will read this section of the Song as say "who cares it's just poetry."

But I think if take that approach we miss what the poet is doing here. which is using this dream section with all its shifting and jarring scene changes to explore some of the adversities that true love must overcome if it going to go the distance. Let's walk through the dream with her and, hopefully, you'll see what I mean.

So v2 she is asleep, but her heart is awake. She is dreaming. Her body is aleep but her desires, her affections, her will, her subconscious mind are all still active. And suddenly she hears the knock of her love at the door to the house. Then as if to confirm what she already knows the man speaks and so begins this interchange between the two of them.

At first glance it seems honest enough. He's come home socking wet, and ask her to open up. Maybe he's on his way back from the pub, and not only has he been caught in the rain... he's forgotten his key as well! To this it looks as if the women says in v3, "Clear off, I'm in bed and I'm not getting up!" v4 he tries to break in and she gets a bit cross.

But it reality it is much more like a scene from a romantic movie. His words in verse 2 are a sort of poetic chat up line. "Won't you come and open the door. I'm soaked, maybe you can help me get dry!" Her reply is equally playful "I'd love to come to the door darling but I really can't. You see I'm not wearing anything. Oh and did I mention, I'm lying in bed and I've just got out the shower?"

Dream or not, these two are into each other. By v4 he's practically breaking down the door and she's excited about where things might lead. She gets up out of bed and suddenly the dream shifts she's at the door. Her hands slick with perfume as she fumbles to unlock the door. The tensions building.

If this were a romantic movie this would the moment where the door swings open and the embrace in passionate kissing. But that isn't what happens, verse five shatters the expectation as this dream shifts into a nightmare! The door swings open and he has gone. Alone and rejcted her heart sinks.

Suddenly, the dream shifts scenes again and now the women is running through the dark streets of the city. She looks for him; calls for him. But she can't find him. When she had a similar dream back in chapter 3 the watchman of the city aided her in her quest. BUt now the nightmare takes on a darker more sinister character as they set up her, beat her, and take her clothes her.

{Pause}

What on earth are we to do with this verse? To simply step away from the text and say "well, it is only a poem isn't it? What does it matter?" Clearly, that will not do. Both the Author and the Holy Spirit have included this verse in our passage for a reason. So what is happening here? Two things I think.

Firstly, in terms of the story the poet is telling here, we simply cannot escape the relaity that the women has been attacked and to some degree sexually assaulted. I'll concede that the language is poetic, but the description of what is happening has been a very real experience to both men and women, one that they will carry to there grave.

I also want you to notice that the poet makes no moral judgement on the women for heading out into the city at night on her own. Instead we have a frank description of the women's incredulous attitude to women's the men who exploited her when they should have help her. I think as christian's here we have to take some of hard medicine. To often it is the survivor of abuse who receive incredious remarks from Christians.

"Oh well, if you hadn't been on your own later at night." "The pastor, the youth worker, the highly regarded member? Oh no dear, they'd never do a thing like that. Stop telling lies. God hates liars you know." If you here this morning and you are a victim of sexual violence, I want to apologise to you, if you have ever been disbelieved or shamed by those who should have championed your cause.

I want you to know that the Lord will ensure that those who did this to you will be held to account for their sin either by bringing them to repentance or by bringing them to justice.

But more than that, I also want you to know that their is hope for you. Those feelings of anger, guilt, shame, that shattered self-image you hold, those things do not need to define you any longer. You are not defiled. you are not dirty. You are made in the image of God. And that same God willing gave up his son, the Lord Jesus, to the worst phsyical and emotional abuse at the hands of sinfull men. So that he might rescue us from both your own sin, and the sins that others have committed against us. More than that, he has promised that all who place their trust in Jesus for salvation and turn their back on this old life, will become in his eyes as if he has lived Jesus perfect life.

Christian's call this the Doctrine of Justification by faith. and It is my firm belief that it is a precious hope for survivors of abuse everywhere. A comfort that that crushes any fears of worthlessness are crushed under wave after wave of love from the cretor of the universe, who through faith in his son, sees you as perfect, holy, without stain or belish. The same God who in Revelation 21:5 promises to make all things new. And that includes you. A remaking that begins now by trsuting in Christ, is continued in this life by the Holy Spirit, and completed in the age to come. If you are here today and are suvivor of abuse, whether sexual, physically, emotional, intellectual, or emotional - I want you to know that their is one who knows exactly what you experienced, that he believes you, he loves you, and he longs to set you free.

With this in mind, as we take a step back and consider v7 in light of 5:2-6:13 as a whole, and even more the whole song. V7 has another function, it also functions a barriar that comes between our two lovers. Something external to the marriage that forces them apart either emotionally, physically, or both. I said earlier that **if we want to go the distance that is going to take persistence.**

In marriage, that often means persistence in and through the hard or even horrific events that come between true lovers. Whatever that might be whether financial difficulty, marital strife, unfaithfulness, bereavement of a loved one or a child, illness, disability, abuse from someone outisde the marriage. That is when true lovers are tempted to drift apart, rather than draw closer to one another, to the Lord, and to wise and trusted Christian friends. ATo by God's grace see those barriers come down and unity be restored. Sometimes, that is eaisier than others. Sometimes such as when the marriage union has been fatally wounded by spousal abuse or maritial unfaithfulness it can be almost impossible. Often made harder if the partner is not a christian. One on level, the pulpit is not the palce to say what should be done in those case since every situation is unique. Other than to say, you are not expected to remain in a home where you feel unsafe, at risk, or are being abused. If that is you today, get yourself somewhere safe and come and speak to one of the elders immediately. Regardless of the situation, it is going to take persistence to go the distance to either repair the marriage or work through effects of a marriage that has ended.
