# True Lovers - Part IV (Song of Songs 5:2-6:13)

## 'Happily Ever After?'

Let me ask you a question: What's your favourite romantic movie? Do you go for something historical like _Pride and Prejudice_? Or do you prefer films that are a bit more offbeat like _Forest Gump_ and _Meet the Parents_? What about one that's out of this world like Pixar's _Wallie_. Whatever your taste there is a romance novel or movie out there for you. Supposedly. Personally, whilst I enjoy _Wallie_ as much as the next guy, I'm not a huge fan of romantic movies myself. I won't lie to you, my favourite novel series ends with everyone thinking the man character is dead and his love interest marring his best friend. But that's just me...

But my opinion is irrelevant, it seems because the romance genre is big business. Do you know that the top 5 most successful romantic films made over 1.7 billion dollars in US box office _ALONE_? To give you some scale, that's about the same as the total UK government spending... for the last two years!

But even that's pocket change compared to the most successful romantic film of all time. Would anyone like to guess what it is? Don't be shy, shout it out...

**Slide**

That's right it is Titanic. Released in 1997, Titanic made 2.2 billion dollars at the box office worldwide. Just so you know, that's enough to buy over 600 million McDonald's Happy Meals. Or about three hours in a hospital car park. So clearly, I'm in the minority - people are in love with romance! Despite the fact that you know how it will end and that every plot is almost exactly the same, people still part with their money to watch the latest romance film.

In some ways, Song of Songs is like a romantic movie - the poetry, the language, the passion - like romantic films the Song is an idealised picture of married life. A 'happily ever after' on every page. But in others ways, the Song has greater honesty about what it takes to stay true lovers, or even simply true people, in a sinful and dying world. That is especially true of our passage this morning. In fact, this morning the Song is going to show us, that **If we want to go the distance, we're going to need persistence** {Repeat}

Specifically, it is going to show us that we need...

1.  Persistence in adversity (5:2-7)
2.  Persistence in friendship (5:8-9,16-6:3)
3.  Persistence in passion (5:10-15, 6:4-13)

That's what it takes to go the distance. So keep your Bible open to Song of Songs chapter 5 and make use the outline in a bulletin to guide you if it helps.

## 1. Persistence in Adversity (5:2-7) (965)

Firstly then, persistence in adversity.

Song of Songs 5:2-9 begins with the words "I slept but my heart was awake." In other words, she's dream. Her body is asleep but her heart (her will and affections) all still active. And like a dream, chapters five – six, are marked by odd and jarring scene changes.

Her dream begins, we're told in v2, with her lover knocking at the door to their house. Then as if to confirm what she already knows the man speaks and so begins this interchange between the two of them.

The language is playful and passionate. He wants her to open the door and she is playing hard to get. Dream or not, these two are into each other and by v4 he's practically breaking down the door whilst she's excited about where things might lead.

All of this builds poetically to the moment when the woman opens the door in verse 5 and 6. If it were a romantic movie this would the moment where the door swings open, they embrace and then kiss. But that isn't what happens, verse five shatters the expectation as this dream turns from fantasy to nightmare! The door opens and he has gone. Alone and rejected her heart sinks.

Suddenly, the nightmare shifts scenes again and now the woman is running through the dark streets of the city. She looks for him; calls for him. But she can't find him. When she had a similar dream back in chapter 3 the watchman of the city aided her in her quest. Here the nightmare takes on a more sinister character as the watchmen set upon her, beat her, and take her clothes.

{Pause}

What on earth are we to do with this verse? To simply step away from the text and say "well, it is only a poetry isn't it...", that will not do. Both the Author and the Holy Spirit have included this verse in our passage for a reason. So what is happening here? Let's gently unpick the threads together.

First of all, I don't think we can escape the reality that the woman has not only been attacked but to some degree sexually assaulted. Look, I'll concede that the language is poetic, but the description of what is happening is telling. They've hit her hard enough to bruise and **at the very least** leave her in some form of nakedness.

Secondly, It is important that we notice something else here or rather the lack of something. Notice, that the poet makes no moral judgement on the woman for heading out into the city, in middle of the night on her own, shouting and running around hysterically. Instead, we have a frank description of the women's encounter with her attackers, men who exploited her when they should have protected her.

I think all of us can learn something here. To often the suffering of an abuse survivor is compounded by the thoughtless remarks from those in the church."Well, if she hadn't been on her own later at night acting like that it wouldn't have happened, would it." "The Elder? The youth worker? The highly regarded church member? Oh no dear, they'd never do a thing like that. Why are you telling lies?"

If you are here this morning and you are a survivor of abuse - any kind but especially sexual violence, I want to apologise to you. If you have ever been disbelieved or shamed by those in the church. I am truly sorry from the bottom of my heart. The Lord does not disbelieve you and he will ensure that those who did this to you, or through inaction were complicit in abuse, will be held to account for their sin either by bringing them to repentance or by bringing them into judgement. As churches, we need to recognise that abuse of both men and women in our culture is reaching epidemic levels.  And what abuse survivors need from us, is no moral disdain, but grace, trust, and action in their defence.

Thirdly, and most importantly, I also want you to know that if you are a survivor of abuse there is still hope for you. Those feelings of anger, guilt, shame, or the fractured self-image you may hold, those things do not need to define you any longer. You are not defiled. You are not dirty. You are made in the image of a God loves you and made you for himself. Not a thing to be used, and cast aside; but as a person to be valued and delighted in by others, for no other reason than that he made you.

And although we have turned our back on him, that same God comes and seeks us out. He comes to us in the person of Jesus to share our humanity, to endure horrific physical and emotional abuse, and then to die horribly and alone that we might experience forgiveness and know acceptance. Having died, he returned again to life so that he might rescue us from both our own sin and the sins that others have committed against us. And in him, make us perfect in The Father’s sight, without spot, or stain, or blemish.

If that we not enough, in Revelation 21:5, he has assured us that he will make ‘all things new.’ And that includes you. A remaking that begins by trusting in Christ now, is continued in this life by the Holy Spirit, and completed in the age to come.

If you are here today and You're survivor of abuse, whether sexual, physical, emotional, intellectual, or spiritual - I want you to know that there is one who knows exactly what you have been through, that he believes you, he is for you, and he is calling you to come to him so that he might set you free.
I won't promise it will be easy, but you don't have to do it alone, the Lord has given you himself, your spouse (if you are married), this church community, and the leadership here. **if you want to go the distance, and be free from your past, it is going to persistence** - but you don't do it alone – the grace of God and your church family is here for you every step of the way.

## 2. Persistence in Friendship (5:8-9, 13-6:3) (808)

Secondly, we need to persistence in friendship.

In v8 the dream-scene changes once again and now she is in front of the chorus of her friends. The daughters of Jerusalem. She begins the similar refrain, "O daughters of Jerusalem, I charge you..." But it doesn't end the way we expect it too. Instead, it turns into a plea: "If you find my lover, what will you tell him? Tell him I am faint with love." Tell him, she says, that I am overwhelmed by my love for him and long to be with him.

With such a romantic expression of her longing for her lover, you'd expect the Daughters to coo like a scene from Grease. But instead, their response is cold. In essence, they reply in v9 by saying "Why should we find him, what makes him so special?" As if she needs an excuse, she uses this as an opportunity to begin another extended description of his physical appeal.

Let me pause here and ask a couple of questions. If you are married: "What is your relationship built upon?" If you are single and desire marriage: "What are you looking for in a spouse?"  These are important questions to consider because if we are not careful we can enter marriage with our relationship built upon something that is good, but not lasting. And when that good thing vanishes, the relationship is shaken to the core.

Given the way these two into each other, you'd be forgiven for thinking that Song of Songs is promoting sexual intimacy and physical attraction as the thing that is foundational to a strong marriage relationship. But that is not the case.

Don't get me wrong, Sex as is a good thing, it is a great thing. It is a thing created by God to be _enjoyed_ in marriage between a man and women. But sadly for many, even many in the church, there is an assumption at the heart of the marriage is a sexual relationship.

This is a problem because it puts the cart before the horse. God's design for marriage is that sex is the pinnacle and not the foundation of the marriage union. This makes sense right? Life brings sessions when sex is impractical, perhaps due to illness, pregnancy, or something like that. But eventually, life brings a season when sex becomes impossible.

But if, sex is foundational to the marriage then when a season of life takes sex out of reach the relationship will have the rug pulled out from under it. Discontentment, conflict, apathy, and bitterness grow up in its place.

And it doesn't just have to be sex. Plenty make personal fulfilment, financial stability, or their children foundational in the marriages. But again, when adversity comes or the money dries up; when personal fulfilment is elusive, or the kids leave home. Once again the marriage is left reeling.

So what is the answer? What is the foundation that we should be building our marriage upon? I am sure you are all waiting for me to say the Bible, and that is true. Certainly, scripture sets the standard of what marriage looks like and is vital to fostering a healthy relationship.

But that is not what the song presents us in these verses, not explicitly anyway. The answer that the song gives us is found in verse 16. Notice what she says to the girls. having described the man to them she rounds off by saying, "This is my lover, this is my _friend_. O daughters of Jerusalem"

It is worth taking note of this verse, underline it even, because it is the first time that word friend appears in the Song. And it reminds us that at the heart of the marriage between these two godly people is a passionate, godly friendship.

Yes, they delight in each other sexually. But married friendship sees sex as the ultimate expression of married love, not its foundation. In a godly married-friendship, Sex is done in service of the other, not for personal fulfilment alone. It enjoyed in a way that does not bring harm or shame to the other but draws the two of you closer together. We see this in Chapter six, verses two and three. Here in the dream, as the two lovers are reunited sexually, she says "I am my lover's and he is mine." Sex is an expression of their togetherness, it is not the reason for it.

Beauty, sex, children, money, all these things are blessings that God may choose to give to a marriage. But all these things are given to us for God's glory and for us to enjoy for a season of our married lives. Yet all these things disappear with time - money is spent, beauty fades, children leave home, or let you down. But if we work at it, a godly friendship grows with time. And that is why Christian friendship, is foundational to a healthy marriage. It is not to say that you can’t have a healthy marriage if you are married to a non-christian, of course, you can. But that will always lack a spiritual dimension, and bring its own set of challenges as you seek to go the distance together.

**If you want to go the distance in marriage, it is going to take persistence.** Persistence to maintain, sustain, forgive and pursue your spouse, not simply as your love, but as your friend. It takes persistence to maintain a friendship in marriage, especially one that takes its cue from the God who gave everything to restore our friendship with him.

## 3. Persistence in Passion (926)

Finally, persistence in passion.

We are studying Song of Songs in my small group at the moment. And it seems to be going really well... at least I think it is. They might be wishing we were still doing Ecclesiastes! You'll have to ask them…

But seriously, chatting over this book has raised started some great conversations. Last week, we spent some time talking about what the man and the woman might have looked like. I don't mean how they are described if you draw a picture based on how they're described they be freakish creations with sheep for teeth and doves for eyes!

But have you ever thought about it before? What they might have a looked like. It is an interesting question, isn't it? On the one hand, she describes herself in chapter one as not meeting the standard of beauty of the day. Yet the first time he speaks in chapter one verse 8, he calls her the 'most beautiful of women'. In chapter five, verse ten she calls him "fit and strong, notable among ten thousand". But she says this in response to her friends who can't understand what she sees in him.

What do you think? How about a quick show of hands? Hands up if you think they are an A-list couple, beautiful and handsome?

Ok. Hands up if you think they're probably a bit ordinary looking?

Hands up if you think it doesn't matter one way or the other?

It is hard to tell, but if you put a gun to my head, I'd go with option three. I think the poet is purposefully leaving it ambitious. Partly because it creates an air of poetic mystery around the couple, but I also think it is ambitious to try and teach us something. You see I don't think it matters in the song whether we think the women is the most beautiful or the man is notable among ten thousand.

The point of the language is that she thinks he is. The punchline of these chapters is that _she thinks_ ‘notable among ten thousand’ (v10), and _she think_ she thinks he is 'altogether lovely' (v16).

In the same way, in chapter six verse 4, he says that her beauty and loveliness is comparable to the great cities in Israel. A beauty that overwhelms him like the sight of an army with banners march over the horizon. And in v9, he says that just as she is unique as the only daughter of her mother, so she is unique to him. For him, there is no other who comes close. Queens might offer power, concubines pleasure, and young women fertility, but none are like her.... more to the point, no of them _are_ her.

You see it doesn't matter to them how we see them, because they are each others standard of beauty. In her eyes, no one comes close to him, and in his eyes she is unique. They have a single-minded love for one another that makes them beautiful in each other sight. no one comes close.

Sadly many men and women enter marriage with an external standard of beauty which they either knowingly or unknowingly hold over their spouse. For some men and women, that comes external standard comes from years of porn consumption. Others it might simply be a celebrity crush or fictional character.

But the truth is, that if you hold anyone other than your spouse as your standard of beauty it will only breed discontentment for you as your standard remains unchanged even as the years change your spouse. It will also only bring shame and feelings of inadequacy to your partner as they fail to measure up in your eyes.

So what is the answer, what is the secret that these two have discovered? How can we hold our partner as 'most beautiful' in our eyes? How can we be persistent in a passion that only has eyes for the other? The secret I think, is to discover a passion for a being even more perfect and even more beautiful than we could ever imagine.

Marriage exists we told in Ephesians 5:25-32 as a metaphor. A living word picture of the relationship between Jesus and his people. Marriage is to be a picture of the promise-keeping faithfulness of God. A God who loves us with a death-defying singleness of mind. A God who delights in us not because we are lovable or delightful in and of ourselves but because he has chosen to see us that way through our trust in Jesus death and return to life. A God so perfectly satisfying that the more we spend time in his word and in prayer getting to know him, the more he becomes lovely in our eyes.

When we begin to see our Lord and our God in that way through his word and through the eyes of faith. Not only does sin of all kind become less valuable, less desirable to us. But so also our spouses become more beautiful and precious to us as we act the gospel in our homes before our children, to a watching world outside our door. In this way, as a couple become each others standard of beauty, the relationship not only becomes more satisfying but also glorifies God as a prophetic display of Christ' single-minded love for his people, and his people's single-minded love for him.

**In marriage, as in a relationship with God... if we want to go the distance it is going to take persistence** Persistence to find in the one we love a standard of beauty that changes how we live and love. A standard of beauty that finds its source in our creator and saviour, and finds an expression in our love for him and for a spouse. If you struggle to see your spouse as altogether lovely, and totally unique, it is worth asking yourself whether you see your Lord that way too. If it is not true of the second, it is not likely to be true of the first either.

## Conclusion 'Until death do us part?'

Today this strange, dream-like passage of Song of Songs has shown us that, whether single or married, life is hard and so is married life.

We've seen that takes **persistence to go the distance**. Persistence to find the strength in Christ and the support of those in the church to overcome even the worst that this sinful and dying world can through at us.

It takes persistence to build our marriages on the strong and stable foundation of Christian friendship. It takes even more for it flourish as years or seasons of life, see children or money leaves us and sexual passion fade.

And it takes persistence to only have eyes for one. A single-minded, gospel-proclaiming marriage where a husband and wife delight in the changing beauty of each other as they each delight in the unchanging beauty of their saviour.

**If we want to go the distance, we’re to need persistence.** And a lasting persistence like that can be only found and sustained in the grace of God which is ours in Christ Jesus. Let's seek that grace today forth good of our lives and our marriages and the glory of our God. Let's pray.

{Pray}
