# Sermon - Not What You Were Expecting? (Mark 2v18-3v6)

## 0. Introduction

### ILLUSTRATION - VW and Ford Motors

-   1945 US Forces captured VW factory

    -   Offer it to Henry Ford for free
    -   FOr says no (bomb site joke)

-   US Government pass Factory to UK

    -   UK put Major IVan Hirst in charge

-   1948 UK offers to sell the company to Ford

    -   Henry Ford says 'no'
    -   Ford Chairman Ernest Breech says "I don't think what we're being offered here is worth a dime"
    -   VW passes back into German hands

-   1964 (16 years later)

    -   VW have produced over 1million cars
    -   Worldwide exporter of the beetle

-   Today,

    -   the Volkswagen group own Audi, Bentley, Bugatti, Lamborghini, Porsche, SEAT, Skoda, and Volkswagen!
    -   Annual income of around 13 billion Euros

> So why did Ford pass up on the deal of lifetime? No one really knows.
>
> The factory was a wreck for one. And the beetle was a symbol of Nazi Germany.
>
> But erhaps the biggest reason is that simply that VW didn't measure up to Ford's expectations.
>
> The boys at Ford thought that cars were for the rich and famous. They couldn't understand the appeal of the cheap and affordable 'car of the people'.
>
> Their unrealisitic expectations meant they missed what was right under their noses

Today we're looking at Mark 2v18 - 3v6. And in these verse we are going to see Jesus fail to measure up to people's expectation.

-   not what they we looking for in a messiah.

-   Henry Ford's expectations caused him to miss out

If we don't have the correct expectations of what JEsus can do, we'll miss what under our noses too! {Repeat}

We'll tackle today's passage like this:

1.  Unexpected practices (2v18-22)
2.  Unexpected Authority (2v23-28)
3.  Unexpected Kindness (3v1-6)

# Unexpected Practices

Firstly then, unexpected practices chapter two verses 18 to 22.

Verse 18 sets the scene and provides the question. The question comes whilst John's disciples and the pharisees disciples are fasting.

The Bible says very little about fasting really but by the time of Jesus's on the scene it's a big deal.

You see there was a belief at the time that fasting didn't to show that you were dependant on God. It was believed that by Fasting you could be forgiven For sins You are unaware of. Since he didn't even know you had committed.

Clearly a questioner is concerned that Jesus' disciples are not fasting like everyone else.  Perhaps they think Jesus' disciples to are not as concerned about holiness and forgiveness as as John and of the pharisees seemed to be.

What makes Jesus' disciples so special?

Whatever the reason for the question, Jesus answers it with three illustrations.  The first is quite straightforward, the other two are a bit tricky.  Let's look at them each in turn.

The first illustration is in verses 19 and 20.  Take the look.

> Jesus answered "how can the guest of the bridegroom fast while he is with them? They cannot so long as they have him with them. But the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them and on that day they will fast."

His first point is actually quite simple.  Jesus says his disciples fasting now would be like someone fasting during a wedding reception.  Weddings are no time for fasting there are times are celebrating.

But if the bridegroom was violently and suddenly  Taken from the celebration been killed then there would be right To mourn and fast .

In the same way now is not the time for his disciples to fast, but to celebrate Jesus' Presence with them.

However when Jesus is arrested and taken away, violently put to death then his disciples will be right for his disciples to fast. But now is not that time.
So that's the first part Jesus answer.  His disciples on fasting because now's not the type of fasting it's the time for celebrating.

So love her so 21 and 22?  Surely Jesus isn't just giving advice full first century tailors and winemakers?  Is he?

Then he tell you a story which I think we'll help explain what Jesus is saying here:

How many of you can remember BlockBuster video stores? At their peak in 2004, BlockBuster hand over 9000 stores and about 60,000 employees in the U.S. alone.  Not to mention the UK and elsewhere .

Four years earlier reed Hastings the CEO of a struggling DVD mail order company called NetFlix also to sell his company to BlockBuster for as little as $50,000,000. He then returned BlockBuster help them make the move from a mail order to online streaming.

Apparently the then head of BlockBuster video literally laughed Hastings out of the boardroom. Nobody wanted to watch films online or so they thought!

BlockBuster couldn't see the the value in what NetFlix X was trying because they were comparing the company to the current way of doing things.  That was their first and last mistake.

By 2010 just six years later BlockBuster had lost over $1.1 billion and was now worth just 24,000,000.  Was NetFlix is now worth a whopping $13,000,000,000.

By comparing NetFlix X to blockbusters old way of doing things, They missed out on the opportunity of a lifetime and also lost everything they had to begin with.

And that's the Point Jesus's making here about new wine and patching cloths.

Jesus arrival marks a new chapter in god's salvation story.  And Lord Jesus has come to do is so unique that it can't be contained by Our expectations of what we think god's messiah should be like.

Just like if you try and put while it still fermenting into an old wine skin, the wine skin can't contain it.  The wind scheme will burst and you lose the wind right along with your old container.

In the same way Jesus is saying we need a new way of thinking for the new thing God is going.

If we try to gauge the value of Jesus life and teachings least our own expectations -where the first or 21st century expectations -will risk losing out on a once in a lifetime opportunity and the rest losing what we have right now.

So let me ask you why you expecting of Jesus today? Are comparing him to the world around you? If so you maaybe wondering why he doesn't promise to deliver the health, wealth and happiness that our society promises you?

Many are wondering, "Yes, but when are going to fix, my job or my family or my health or my finances, Jesus?"

If we constantly compare Jesus'to our expectations of what we think Jesus should do and what only be disappointed.

Instead we need to ask ourselves what Liesl Jesus expecting to do?  What is Jesus come to achieve on my behalf on the cross?  What is Jesus believe the gospel will do for me?

Jesus will not be contained by our human expectations he'll burst out of them like new wine from all the wine skins!

And like BlockBuster video will be left wondering "How did I miss the opportunity of a lifetime? How did i end up loosing everything?"

Jesus the unexpected practices remind us that he came to do something to no one was expecting.  He didn't come to offer us new rules for life.  He came to offer as new life to his death and resturn to life.

The question we have had asked ourselves if there are we willing to assess Jesus on his own terms?  The next to encounters showed just what happens when we don't.
