# Sermon - Not What You Were Expecting? (Mark 2v18-3v6)

## 0. Introduction

### ILLUSTRATION - VW and Ford Motors

-   1945 US Forces captured VW factory

    -   Offer it to Henry Ford for free
    -   FOr says no (bomb site joke)

-   US Government pass Factory to UK

    -   UK put Major IVan Hirst in charge

-   1948 UK offers to sell the company to Ford

    -   Henry Ford says 'no'
    -   Ford Chairman Ernest Breech says "I don't think what we're being offered here is worth a dime"
    -   VW passes back into German hands

-   1964 (16 years later)

    -   VW have produced over 1million cars
    -   Worldwide exporter of the beetle

-   Today,

    -   the Volkswagen group own Audi, Bentley, Bugatti, Lamborghini, Porsche, SEAT, Skoda, and Volkswagen!
    -   Annual income of around 13 billion Euros

> So why did Ford pass up on the deal of lifetime? No one really knows.
>
> The factory was a wreck for one. And the beetle was a symbol of Nazi Germany.
>
> But erhaps the biggest reason is that simply that VW didn't measure up to Ford's expectations.
>
> The boys at Ford thought that cars were for the rich and famous. They couldn't understand the appeal of the cheap and affordable 'car of the people'.
>
> Their unrealisitic expectations meant they missed what was right under their noses

Today we're looking at Mark 2v18 - 3v6. And in these verse we are going to see Jesus fail to measure up to people's expectation.

-   not what they we looking for in a messiah.

-   Henry Ford's expectations caused him to miss out

If we don't have the correct expectations of what JEsus can do, we'll miss what under our noses too! {Repeat}

We'll tackle today's passage like this:

1.  Unexpected practices (2v18-22)
2.  Unexpected Authority (2v23-28)
3.  Unexpected Kindness (3v1-6)

# Unexpected Practices

Firstly then, unexpected practices chapter two verses 18 to 22.

Verse 18 sets the scene and provides the question. The question comes whilst John's disciples and the pharisees disciples are fasting.

The Bible says very little about fasting really but by the time of Jesus's on the scene it's a big deal.

You see there was a belief at the time that fasting didn't to show that you were holy it was a way of receiving forgiveness for sins you didn't even know you had committed.

So maybe our questioner is concerned that Jesus' disciples that netted get to fast.

Whatever the reason for the question Jesus answers with three illustrations in verses 19 to 22. Verse 19 is fairly straightforward, but verse 21 and 22 did a bit more explaining so let's look at verse 19 first.

Take a look at verse 19.

> Jesus answered "how can the guest of the bridegroom fast while he is with them? They cannot so long as they have him with them. But the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them and on that day they will fast."
