# Sermon - Tails of the Unexpected (Mark 2v18-3v6)

## 0. Introduction

### ILLUSTRATION - VW and Ford Motors

-   1945 US Forces captured VW factory

    -   Offer it to Henry Ford for free
    -   FOr says no (bomb site joke)

-   US Government pass Factory to UK

    -   UK put Major IVan Hirst in charge

-   1948 UK offers to sell the company to Ford

    -   Ford Chairman Ernest Breech said "I don't think what we're being offered here is worth a dime"
    -   Henry Ford says 'no' ...again!
    -   VW passes back into German hands

-   1964 (16 years later)

    -   VW have produced over 1million cars
    -   Worldwide exporter of the beetle

-   Today,

    -   the Volkswagen group own Audi, Bentley, Bugatti, Lamborghini, Porsche, SEAT, Skoda, and Volkswagen!
    -   Annual income of around 13 billion Euros

> So why did Ford pass up on the deal of lifetime? No one really knows.
>
> The factory was a wreck for one. And the beetle was a symbol of Nazi Germany.
>
> But erhaps the biggest reason is that simply that VW didn't measure up to Ford's expectations.
>
> The boys at Ford thought that cars were for the rich and famous. They couldn't understand the appeal of the cheap and affordable 'car of the people'.
>
> Their unrealisitic expectations meant they missed what was right under their noses

Today we're looking at Mark 2v18 - 3v6. And in these verse we are going to see Jesus fail to measure up to people's expectation.

-   not what they we looking for in a messiah.

-   Henry Ford's expectations caused him to miss out

If we don't have the correct expectations of what JEsus can do, we'll miss what under our noses too! {Repeat}

We'll tackle today's passage like this:

1.  Unexpected practices (2v18-22)
2.  Unexpected Authority (2v23-28)
3.  Unexpected Kindness (3v1-6)

# Unexpected Practices (1000)

Firstly then, unexpected practices chapter two verses 18 to 22.

Verse 18 sets the scene and provides the question. The question comes whilst John's disciples and the pharisees disciples are fasting.

The Bible says very little about fasting really but by the time of Jesus's on the scene it's a big deal.

You see there was a belief at the time that fasting didn't to show that you were dependant on God. It was believed that by Fasting you could be forgiven For sins You are unaware of. Sings you didn't even know you had committed.

So obviously, the more godly you were... right?

Our a questioner is concerned that Jesus' disciples are not fasting like everyone else.

Perhaps they think Jesus' disciples to are not as concerned about holiness and forgiveness as as John and of the pharisees seemed to be.

What makes Jesus' disciples so special?

Whatever the reason for the question, Jesus answers it with three illustrations.  The first is quite straightforward, the other two are a bit tricky.   We'll look at those in a mo.

The first illustration is in verses 19 and 20.  Take the look.

> Jesus answered "how can the guest of the bridegroom fast while he is with them? They cannot so long as they have him with them. But the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them and on that day they will fast."

His first point is actually quite simple.  Jesus says his disciples fasting now would be like someone fasting during a wedding reception.

Weddings are no time for fasting and being sad thye're a times are celebrating!

But if the bridegroom was suddenly and violetly  taken from the celebration and killed - Then it would be right to fast and be sad.

In the same way now is not the time for his disciples to fast, but to celebrate Jesus' Presence with them.

But when Jesus is arrested and put to death. Then his disciples can fast, then they can be sad, but that time is not now.

So that's the first part of Jesus answer.  His disciples aren't fasting because now.

Because it's not the time for fasting .it's the time for celebrating what God is doing.

So what about verses 21 and 22?  There's more going on here than advice for tailors and winemakers.

Maybe this story will help...

How many of you can remember BlockBuster video stores? At their peak in 2004, BlockBuster hand over 9000 stores and about 60,000 employees in the U.S. alone.  Not to mention the UK.

But even then BlockBusters days were numbered and they didn't even know it.

you see, Four years earlier reed Hastings the CEO of a struggling DVD mail order company called NetFlix offered to sell his company to BlockBuster for as little as $50,000,000. If, in return, BlockBuster help them make the move from a mail order to online streaming.

Apparently the then head of BlockBuster video literally laughed Hastings out of the boardroom. Nobody wanted to watch films online. That's not how it is done.

BlockBuster couldn't see the the value in what NetFlix was trying to do, because they couldn't see beyond what Netflix was doing right then and there. That was their first and last mistake.

By 2010 just six years later BlockBuster had lost over $1.1 billion and was now worth just 24,000,000. In the same amount of time, NetFlix value had increaded from $50million to a whopping $13 billion.

By comparing NetFlix X to blockbusters old way of doing things, They missed out on the opportunity of a lifetime. And in the process lost everyhting.

And that's the Point Jesus's making here about new wine and patching cloths.

Jesus arrival marks a new chapter in god's salvation story.

And Jesus has come to do is so unique that it can't be contained by Our expectations of what we think god's messiah should be like.

Just like if you try and put wine that still fermenting into an old wine skin, the wine skin can't contain it.  The wine skin bursts and you loose what you had and what you hoped to gain.

In the same way Jesus is saying we need a new way of thinking for the new thing God is doing.

So what exactly did Jesus come to do and is it the same as what you are expecting him to do for you?

Both Jesus and the Bible are clear, that Jesus came to die for our sin and make us right with God

But what if were expecting Jesus to do something which isn't promised in the bible? Well, we are going to be disappointed.

What if we try to force those expectations on Jesus? He'll burst out of them like new wine from old wine skins!

So what are some unbiblical expectations to put on Jesus?

Let me close of this section with two quick examples.

### 1. Give me what I want not just what I need!

Maybe the most common is expecting Jesus to give us what we want, not just what we need.

But the truth is Jesus didn't come to grant our wishes like the genie from Aladdin.

Jesus came to meet our greatest need.  And our greatest need is that we experience the love and forgiveness of the God who made us and love us.

If we find we love Jesus because of what he can give us.  And not because of who he is and what he's done on cross.  Then maybe we don't really love him at all and we'll find his performance disappointing.

### 2.  Make me great without making me godly

It's also unbiblical to think that Jesus will make his great without needing to make us godly along the way.

That somehow we can become a leader at home in the community at work or in the church without needing to change in any meaningful way.

But Jesus didn't come just to make leaders, but disciples, and disciple means follower!

And the goal of the disciple is not to become great but to become like your teacher.

Jesus doesn't make leaders out of the ambitious who don't want to change.  He makes leaders out of the humble who want to be like him.

So before you ask Jesus to make you leader of us. Stop. Ask yourself this:  How well am I following Jesus?

Because JEsus died to make us godly, not to make us great!

So there two examples of unbliblical expectations which can put on Jesus.


---

If you're a Christian with unbiblical expectations of Jesus they are probably going to leave you disappointed with God and resentful towards his people.

If you are a non-Christian with unbiblical expectations of what Jesus will do for you. You might find they stop you from coming to Jesus all together.

Which means you miss out on the eternal life Jesus offers you and be left facing an etnerity in hell.

When that happen you might feel like the CEO BlockBuster. Wondering "How did I miss the opportunity of a lifetime? How did i end up loosing everything?"

Whatever the case, Christian or otherwise, the solution to unbiblical expectations is the same. To let go of what you hope Jesus will do for you or hope he will offer you.

And consider what he has actually offers you.

A new start. Complete forgiveness. And a perfect standing before God. He did all this because he loves you.

And if you let him, he'll exceed you every expectation. Try to contain him, and you risk loosing it all.

# Unexpected Authority (2v23-28) (967)

Second, unexpected authority chapter two verses 23 to 28.

Again Mark sets the scene for us. Take a look at verse 23 and 24.

> One Sabbath Jesus was going through the grainfields, and as his disciples walked along, they began to pick some heads of grain.

Picture the scene with me.

Here's Jesus and his disciples.  Walking through some farmland.

Heading back from the Synagogue maybe.

Its hot, their hungry, they fancy a snack.

So they pick few heads of grain as they walk along. No big deal.

Like picking blackberries from a bush.

When all of a sudden, verse 24,

> "The Pharisees said to {Jesus}, “Look, why are {your disciples} doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath?”"

Woah!  Where did they come from?  It's like the pharisees were hiding in the fields just waiting to to jump out on the disciples and shout "ummm... what do you think you are doing?"

They weren't annoyed that the disciples were pick grain, but when they were doing it.

They were picking grain on the Sabbath. A day when according to the 10 commandments people were to down tools and rest from their work, which included harvesting crops.

And for the Paharisees and their followers,  if you cut down 100 achres with tools or picked one single grain by hand it didn't matter.

You were harvesting grain, and that wasn not allowed on the sabbath!  No exceptions! None.

It doesn't take much to see that this is the most painful form of legalism imaginable. And Jesus is keen to point this out to them.

Like every good preacher, Jesus' reply has three points.

### You're Trapped in Your Traditions

Jesus makes his first point in verses 25 and 26.

Here he points them to a story about David in 1 Samuel 21, to show them that their traditions have trapped them.

In the 1 Samuel 21, David, on the run from Saul enters the tent of meeting, lies to the priest in charge, and convinces him to give David and his men some bread.

And here's the thing, under the Law of Moses the bread David is given was only supposed to be eaten by priests and no one else.

But becuase David's actions were never condemned. It's the perfect way for JEsus to show how the Pharasees are trapped by their Sabbath traditions.

On the one hand if the pharisees so concerned about the disciples picking corn on the Sabbath, they should be even more concerned about the actions of Israel's greatest king.  And essentially, leave Jesus and his disciples alone.

On the other hand,  if David actions weren't such a big deal after all. Then the disciples search for a roadside snack isn't a big deal either.  And so the Pharasees should leave Jesus and his disciples alone.

Either way the only escape for the Pharisees is to admit that the traditions around the Sabbath were just that, traditions.

But that would mean admitting that they were wrong to question Jesus. They don't want to do that, so they stay trapped in their traditions.

### They've misunderstood the Sabbath

Next Jesus shows that they've misunderstood the sabbath in the first place.  He says in v27:

> "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath."

What Jesus is saying is that God did not create humans to slavishly serve the law, but created  the law to serve us. It is for our good.

God created the law to show us what true human freedom, what the good life, really looks like.

Its true that we constantly fall short of that standard all the time, but that problem is not solved by create more laws to follow.

As if we're doing God a favour...

Instead we need to be transformed by the love of God. A love that caused God to send his son to become like us and take our punishment. So that we could become like him - right with God forever.

We can't love God's law if we don't love the lawgiver.

If we try we'll only twist it into something horrible! And use it as a stick to beat people who we consider less obedient than us.

Which is exactly what the Pharasees were doing with their Sabbath traditions in this passage

### They Fail to recognise Jesus' Authority.

Jesus final point is the most unexpected.

He accuses them of not regcognising his authority. In 28, he says

> The Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.

When Jesus says that he is Lord even of the Sabbath, he is saying that he is the creator and author of all the Sabbath laws.

Who wrote the Sabbath laws?  God did.

Jesus is saying he decides what actions break the law and which don't.  Because Jesus is God the lawgiver and we are not.

But the Pharisees just don't seem to get it. By challengin Jesus over his disciples behaviour they are challenging God's interpretation of his own law!

Its as crazy a me interrupting a lecture by Albert Einstein and accusing him of misunderstanding physics!

The pharisees should be far more concerned about what questions Jesus might ask about them about their understand of HIS law.

And that's crunch point for us today.

There is a real danger that we can become so preoccupied over whether other people are doing what we think they should be doing. Than whether we are doing what Jesus wants us to be doing.

At the end of the day, Jesus is more concerned about who you think he is. And whether you  are believing and following him.

Than whether or not you think someone else is believing and following Jesus as well as you are.

That road leads legalism, and as we're going to see next, legalism makes us an enemy of the gospel.

## Unexpected Kindness (3:1-6) (1300)

Finally unexpected kindness chapter 3 verses 1 to 6.

> I want you to imagine a situation with me.
>
> Imagine you're walking to church.  The sun is shining.  The birds are singing.  Everything's going great.
>
> As he walked up Clarendon road you see a man struggling to cross the street.
>
> The man's old.  Really old.  He's got a bad leg and a couple of sticks.
>
> The none of the cars are stopping for him.  And he doesn't look very steady.  To curb some even he could easily slip and fall.
>
> Your route will take you right past where the man's standing.
>
> So what do you do?  Take a moment of picture the scene in your mind.
>  would you stop to help?
>
> I imagine you didn't need to think long, right? You'd stop to help.
>
> Helping someone cross the road isn't even a particalarly Christian thing to do. Its just a decent human being thing to do.
>
> So you offer the man your help. He's surprised by your unexpected kindness and off you go.
>
> You get to church in good time and don't give it any more thought.
>
> OK! Back up! Let's play the scene again. Same day, same street, same man.
>
> Only this time something is different. Imagine you knew with godlike certainty that helping the man would lead to your death.
>
> When you help this man cross the road it will set of a chain of events that will result in you being kidnapped, tortured, and killed before the year is over.
>
> Take a moment. Picture the scene in your mind. What will you do? Help the man and seal your fate. Or keep walking and live?
>
> Obviously I can't asnwer for you. And I'd love to say that I am so selfless that I help the man no matter the cost.
>
> But the truth is, I'd probably keep walking.

By now your probably wondering, 'What is the point of this creepy illustration.'

Well believe it our not, this is exactly the choice Jesus is faced with in Mark 3v1-6. But to understand why we need to start at the beginning.

Here's how mark introduces the encounter.  Take a look.

> Another time {Jesus} went into the synagogue, and a man with a shriveled hand was there.
>
> Some of them {that's the Pharasees} were looking for a reason to accuse Jesus, so they watched him closely to see if he would heal him on the Sabbath.

So in verses one and two,  Mark describes a different run in, on a different Sabbath day.

This time it's not picking grain on that's the issue, but healing.

For pharisees, the only healing - medical or supernatural - which was allowed on the Sabbath was lifesaving procedures.

Clearly a shrivelled hand isn't life threatening.  It's probably life limiting, but the man's not gonna die from it.

So in the pharisees book, Jesus healing the man would mean breaking the Sabbath law.

Before we deal with how Jesus responds to the pharisees, I just want you to notice something.

The question in the pharisees minds, is not care and Jesus heal this man.  Mark points out in verse two, that the pharisees new Jesus could heal people.

The issue is whether he would do it on the Sabbath.

If he did he would be clear to everyone that Jesus didn't agree with the pharisees painfully legalistic view of the Sabbath.

Based on verse 6 we know that the pharisees are looking to plot Jesus down fall.

And now they have a situation that might just give them the reason they're looking for.

What is Jesus going to do?

The first thing Jesus does is he brings the man shrivelled hand front and centre for everyone to see.

He wants everyone there to know for sure what all the hoo-haa is really aabout

Then he asks them a very clever question.  Its there in verse four:

> Then Jesus asked them, “Which is lawful on the Sabbath: to do good or to do evil, to save life or to kill?”
>
> But {the Pharisees} remained silent.

...and  I'm not surprised. The question is brilliant, no seriously, it is brilliant!

Essentially Jesus asks them, " which is the following would you consider to be against God's law?"

"Showing kindness to a man with a shrivelled hand?  Or plotting to murder the man who showed him kindness?"

Again it's worth pointing out, that Jesus' question is not about humiliating pharisees but calling them to repentance.

Jesus' isn't just showing unexpected kindness to a man who's hand needs healing.  If he wanted to do that he could have just walked in, healed the man, and walked out.

No! he's giving the pharisees, a chance to turn away from their legalism which are separating them from god. And to turn to Jesus in faith for forgiveness.

So how do the pharisees repay Jesus for his unexpected kindness to them?  They go out and plot to kill him with Herodians. A group of Jewish political movers and shakers.

Here's a thing if you think you've got it all together, that you're a good person, that you're not really a sinner.  You'll never understand what Jesus came to do.

Because Jesus didn't come to save those who think they've got it all together.

He came to save sinners.  The misfits, the muck ups, and the mistake makers.

If you don't think you fall into that category you struggle to understand god's love and eventually you'll resent altogether.

And like the pharisees, you may find that eventually you hate the cross and everything it stands for, without even realising it.

So what's the solution?  To see that we have to look at someone else in this scene who receives unexpected kindness from Jesus.

The man with a shrivelled hand.

You see the man with the shrivelled hand isn't neutral to Jesus either.  Sure he's not plotting to kill him, but he's still Jesus enemy.

We don't need to know any details about his life to know that he's a sinner.  Because there's only ever be one person without sin and he's about to be healed by him.

So we can be confident that this man hasn't loved God with all his heart, soul, mind, and strength.

And he hasn't love his neighbour as himself.

And Failing to love god and love our neighbour perfectly is the heart and soul of sin.

Sin is treason against King Jesus and he makes is his enemy.

So get this, Jesus doesn't just heal his enemy.  Jesus heals his enemy knowing that he's gonna cost him his life.

That Jesus healing this man will set in motion a chain of events that will take JEsus to the cross.

That is staggering and unexpected kindness.

Which is exactly the point in preparing this sermon when I realized, " my gosh, in this scene the man with a shrivelled hand is me."

That's exactly like me.  Only Jesus didn't lay down his life fix my shrivelled hand, but to fix my shrivelled heart!

He is me, and you know what, he if you.  All of our hearts our shrivelled.  None of us love god perfectly.

I struggled to love myself without thinking and the best thing ever let alone my neighbour.

Our misdirected loves have made us god's enemies.  And how does god respond? With unexpected kindness.

He enters our world, he becomes like ours, he does all we could never do.  He loves god and he loves others perfectly.

And even though it cost him his life he shows as unexpected kindness by dying on the cross in a place for our sins.

And in exchange he makes it in the father eyes as if we've lived Jesus perfect life.

The incredible an unexpected kindness is only available to those who are willing to realise that they are a muckup, misfit, and an enemy of God.

Because the only those who are willing to admit that they're not good and the they haven't got it all together are those who can experience Jesus' Life changing kindness.

## Tails of the Unexpected.

I was not and never very good English.  Probably because I'm horribly dyslexic.

During the year 11, my mum paid for an English tutor, and she did a good job, in six months she got me from an F to a D in my gcses.

But it still took two more resits in sixth form college before I finally got that elusive C.

For one of those resit exams we had to study Rahl Dahl's Tails of the Unexpected.

I'm sure you know he's other children's books like Matilda and James and the giant peach.

But tails of the unexpected were different, they were darker for one, and for a more grown up audience.

But I'll never forget the way he drew you into the story and then at the last moment turned everything on its head in a way that was completely unexpected.

Don't you think marks historical account of Jesus' Life does exactly the same thing?

Whether you're reading it for the first time all the 100th time, Jesus is full of surprises!  Just when you think you've got him pinned down.

He doesn't the completely unexpected that blows you away.

Into this passage we've seen the Jesus unexpected practices, revealed that he's come to write a new chapter in god's salvation story.

And we need to make sure we come to him on his terms - not ours - if we don't wanna miss out on what he's doing.

We've seen him go toe to toe with the pharisees who was speechless when faced with his unexpected authority.

An authority which reveals him to be none other than the ruler and the creator of the universe.

And we seen his breathtaking an unexpected kindness.

Kindness towards legalists who don't think they need him and want nothing to do with them.

And kindness towards people like us, shrivilled hearted humans whose misdirected loves have made God our enemy.

And yet he still willing to enter our world and overwhelm us with his kindness

Even even if it meant the death and return to life of Jesus Christ.

What are you expecting of Jesus today? And is the same as what he is expecting to do for you?

Let's pray.
