# Sermon - Not What You Were Expecting? (Mark 2v18-3v6)

## 0. Introduction

### ILLUSTRATION - VW and Ford Motors

-   1945 US Forces captured VW factory

    -   Offer it to Henry Ford for free
    -   FOr says no (bomb site joke)

-   US Government pass Factory to UK

    -   UK put Major IVan Hirst in charge

-   1948 UK offers to sell the company to Ford

    -   Henry Ford says 'no'
    -   Ford Chairman Ernest Breech says "I don't think what we're being offered here is worth a dime"
    -   VW passes back into German hands

-   1964 (16 years later)

    -   VW have produced over 1million cars
    -   Worldwide exporter of the beetle

-   Today,

    -   the Volkswagen group own Audi, Bentley, Bugatti, Lamborghini, Porsche, SEAT, Skoda, and Volkswagen!
    -   Annual income of around 13 billion Euros

> So why did Ford pass up on the deal of lifetime? No one really knows.
>
> The factory was a wreck for one. And the beetle was a symbol of Nazi Germany.
>
> But erhaps the biggest reason is that simply that VW didn't measure up to Ford's expectations.
>
> The boys at Ford thought that cars were for the rich and famous. They couldn't understand the appeal of the cheap and affordable 'car of the people'.
>
> Their unrealisitic expectations meant they missed what was right under their noses

Today we're looking at Mark 2v18 - 3v6. And in these verse we are going to see Jesus fail to measure up to people's expectation.

-   not what they we looking for in a messiah.

-   Henry Ford's expectations caused him to miss out

If we don't have the correct expectations of what JEsus can do, we'll miss what under our noses too! {Repeat}

We'll tackle today's passage like this:

1.  Unexpected practices (2v18-22)
2.  Unexpected Authority (2v23-28)
3.  Unexpected Kindness (3v1-6)

# Unexpected Practices (1000)

Firstly then, unexpected practices chapter two verses 18 to 22.

Verse 18 sets the scene and provides the question. The question comes whilst John's disciples and the pharisees disciples are fasting.

The Bible says very little about fasting really but by the time of Jesus's on the scene it's a big deal.

You see there was a belief at the time that fasting didn't to show that you were dependant on God. It was believed that by Fasting you could be forgiven For sins You are unaware of. Since he didn't even know you had committed.

Clearly a questioner is concerned that Jesus' disciples are not fasting like everyone else.  Perhaps they think Jesus' disciples to are not as concerned about holiness and forgiveness as as John and of the pharisees seemed to be.

What makes Jesus' disciples so special?

Whatever the reason for the question, Jesus answers it with three illustrations.  The first is quite straightforward, the other two are a bit tricky.  Let's look at them each in turn.

The first illustration is in verses 19 and 20.  Take the look.

> Jesus answered "how can the guest of the bridegroom fast while he is with them? They cannot so long as they have him with them. But the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them and on that day they will fast."

His first point is actually quite simple.  Jesus says his disciples fasting now would be like someone fasting during a wedding reception.  Weddings are no time for fasting there are times are celebrating.

But if the bridegroom was suddenly and violetly  taken from the celebration been killed then there would be right to fast  and be sad.

In the same way now is not the time for his disciples to fast, but to celebrate Jesus' Presence with them.

But when Jesus is arrested and put to death. Then his disciples can fast, but that time is not now.

So that's the first part Jesus answer.  His disciples aren't fasting because now's not the time for fasting it's the time for celebrating what God is doing.

So what about verses 21 and 22?  There is more going on here than advice for tailors and winemakers.

Maybe this story will help...

How many of you can remember BlockBuster video stores? At their peak in 2004, BlockBuster hand over 9000 stores and about 60,000 employees in the U.S. alone.  Not to mention the UK.

But BlockBusters days were numbered and they didn't even know it.

Four years earlier reed Hastings the CEO of a struggling DVD mail order company called NetFlix offered to sell his company to BlockBuster for as little as $50,000,000. If, in return, BlockBuster help them make the move from a mail order to online streaming.

Apparently the then head of BlockBuster video literally laughed Hastings out of the boardroom. Nobody wanted to watch films online. That's not how it is done.

BlockBuster couldn't see the the value in what NetFlix X was trying because they were comparing Netflix to the current way of doing things.  That was their first and last mistake.

By 2010 just six years later BlockBuster had lost over $1.1 billion and was now worth just 24,000,000. In the same amount of time, NetFlix value had increaded from $50million to a whopping $13 billion.

By comparing NetFlix X to blockbusters old way of doing things, They missed out on the opportunity of a lifetime. And in the process lost everyhting.

And that's the Point Jesus's making here about new wine and patching cloths.

Jesus arrival marks a new chapter in god's salvation story.  And Lord Jesus has come to do is so unique that it can't be contained by Our expectations of what we think god's messiah should be like.

Just like if you try and put wine that still fermenting into an old wine skin, the wine skin can't contain it.  The wine skin bursts and you loose what you had and what you hoped to gain.

In the same way Jesus is saying we need a new way of thinking for the new thing God is going.

If we try to gauge the value of Jesus life and teachings least our own expectations - whether first or 21st century expectations - will risk losing what we have and what we hoped to gain.

We'll miss out on the eternal life Jesus offers us, and what we have right now when God justly sentences us to hell.

So let me ask you why you expecting of Jesus today? Are comparing him to the world around you? If so you maaybe wondering why he doesn't promise to deliver the health, wealth and happiness that our society promises you?

Many are wondering, "Yes, but when are going to fix, my job or my family or my health or my finances, Jesus?"

If we constantly compare Jesus'to our expectations of what we think Jesus should do and what only be disappointed.

Instead we need to ask ourselves what Liesl Jesus expecting to do?  What is Jesus come to achieve on my behalf on the cross?  What is Jesus believe the gospel will do for me?

Jesus will not be contained by our human expectations he'll burst out of them like new wine from all the wine skins!

And like BlockBuster video will be left wondering "How did I miss the opportunity of a lifetime? How did i end up loosing everything?"

Jesus the unexpected practices remind us that he came to do something to no one was expecting.  He didn't come to offer us new rules for life.  He came to offer as new life to his death on the cross.

The question we have had asked ourselves if there are we willing to assess Jesus on his terms?

Are we willing to let go off what we think we know, so we can receive what Jesus has to offer.

Forgiveness and eternal life in him!

# Unexpected Authority (2v23-28) (967)

Second, unexpected authority chapter two verses 23 to 28.

Again Mark sets the scene for us. Take a look at verse 23 and 24.

> One Sabbath Jesus was going through the grainfields, and as his disciples walked along, they began to pick some heads of grain.

So there's Jesus and his disciples.  Walking through some farmland.

Heading back from the Synagogue maybe.

Its hot, their hungry, they fancy a snack.

So they pick few heads of grain as they walk along. No big deal.

When all of a sudden, verse 24,

> "The Pharisees said to {Jesus}, “Look, why are {your disciples} doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath?”"

Woah!  Where did they come from?  It's like the pharisees were hiding in the fields just waiting to to jump out on the disciples and shout "ummm... what do you think you are doing?"

They weren't annoyed at what the disciples were doing, but when they were doing it.

They were picking grain on the Sabbath. A day when according to the 10 commandments people were to down tools and rest from their work, which included harvesting crops.

And for the Paharisees and their followers,  if you cut down 100 achres with tools or picked one single grain by hand it didn't matter. You were harvesting grain, and that wasn not allowed on the sabbath!  No exceptions! None.

It doesn't take much to see that this is the most painful form of legalism imaginable. And Jesus is keen to point this out to them.

Like every good preacher, Jesus' reply has three points.

### You're Trapped in Your Traditions

Jesus makes his first point in verses 25 and 26.

Here he points them to a story about David in 1 Samuel 21, to show them that their traditions have trapped them.

In the 1 Samuel 21, David, on the run from Saul enters the tent of meeting, lies to the priest in charge, and convinces him to give David and his men some bread.

And here's the thing, under the Law of Moses the bread David is given was only supposed to be eaten by priests and no one else.

But becuase David's actions whenever condemned it is the perfect way for JEsus to show how the Pharasees are trapped by their Sabbath traditions.

On the one hand if the pharisees so concerned about the disciples picking corn on the Sabbath, they should be even more concerned about the actions of Israel's greatest king.  And essentially, leave Jesus and his disciples alone.

On the other hand,  if David actions when such a big deal after all. Then the disciples search for a roadside snack isn't a big deal either.  And so the Pharasees should leave Jesus and his disciples alone.

Either way the only escape for the Pharisees is to admit that the the traditions around the Sabbath were just that, traditions.

But that would mean admitting that they were wrong to question Jesus. They don't want to do that, so they stay trapped in their traditions.

### They've misunderstood the Sabbath

Next Jesus shows that they've misunderstood the sabbath in the first place.  He says in v27:

> "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath."

What Jesus is saying is that God did not create humans to slavishly serve the law, but created  the law to serve us. It is for our good.

God created the law to show us what true human freedom, what the good life, really looks like.

Its true that we constantly fall short of that standard all the time, but that problem is not solved by create more laws to follow. As if we're doing God a favour...

Instead we need to be transformed by the love of God. A love that caused God to send his son to become like us and take our punishment. So that we could become like him - right with God forever.

We can't love God's law if we don't love God. If we try we'll only twist it into something horrible! And use it as a stick to beat people who we consider less obedient than us.

Which is exactly what the Pharasees were doing with the Sabbath laws in this passage

### They Fail to recognise Jesus' Authority.

Jesus final point is the most surprising. He accuses them of not regcognising his authority. In 28, he says

> The Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.

When Jesus says that he is Lord even of the Sabbath, he is saying that he is the creator and author of all the Sabbath laws.

Who wrote the Sabbath laws?  God did.

Jesus is saying he decides what actions break the law and which don't.  Because Jesus is God and we are not.

What the Pharisees just don't seem to get it. By challengin Jesus over his disciples behaviour they are challenging God's interpretation of his own law!

Its as crazy a me interrupting a lecture by Albert Einstein and accusing him of misunderstanding physics!

The pharisees should be far more concerned about what questions Jesus might ask about them about their understand of HIS law.

And that's crunch point for us today.

There is a real danger that we can become so preoccupied over whether other people are doing what we think they should be doing. Than whether we are doing what Jesus wants us to be doing.

At the end of the day, Jesus is more concerned about who you think he is. And whether you  are believing and following him.

Than whether or not you think someone else is believing and following Jesus as well as you are.

That road leads legalism, and as we're going to see next, legalism makes us an enemy of the gospel.
