# Sermon - Not What You Were Expecting? (Mark 2v18-3v6)


## 0. Introduction

By the end of the second world war Germany was a bit of a mess.

The allied compaign to overthrow the nazi's had left a lot of the big cities and factories in a ruins. And that was true for the Volkswagen factory too.

Before the war it had churned out VW Beetles like there was no tomorrow but now over 38% of the factory site was literally, a bomb site. And the rest was littered with wrecked machine and unexploded bombs. So what to do with it?

The factory was captured by American forces at the end of the war. And unsure what to do with the place the US Government offered to give it to Henry Ford (of Ford Motors) for nothing!

When Ford declined, the US Government pass the site on to the British Amry.  The UK Government put Major Ivan Hirst of the Royal Engineers in charge.

Hirst aware that what the locals needed most was something productive to do. So he reopen the factory.

Within a few year VW beetles began rolling off the factory. And in 1948, the UK government offered to sell the Factory to Ford.

Again Henry Ford  turned down the offer. Ernest Breech who was Ford chairman at the time said about the deal "I don't think what we're being offered here is worth a dime."

Still not sure what to do with the place. The factory eventually passed back into German ownership. And in 1964, just 16 years after it was offered to Ford Motors, VW had produced over 1 million cars and was exporting the Beetle worldwide.

Today, the Volkswagen group own Audi, Bentley, Bugatti, Lamborghini, Porsche, SEAT, Skoda, and Volkswagen! And have an income of abour 13 billion Euros a year!

So why did Ford pass up on the deal of lifetime? No one really knows.

The factory was a wreck for one. And the beetle was a symbol of Nazi Germany.

But erhaps the biggest reason is that simply that VW didn't measure up to Ford's expectations.

The boys at Ford thought that cars were for the rich and famous. They couldn't understand the appeal of the cheap and affordable 'car of the people'. Which meant they missed what was right under their noses all along!

Today we're looking at Mark 2v18 - 3v6. And in these verse we are going to see Jesus fail to measure up to the expectations of others.

He is just not what they were expecting. But just like Henry Ford and VW, they are in danger of missing what is write under their noses.

We'll tackle today's passage like this:

1. Unexpected practices (2v18-22)
2. Unexpected Authority (2v23-28)
3. Unexpected Kindness (3v1-6)
