# Sermon - Not What You Were Expecting? (Mark 2v18-3v6)

## 0. Introduction

### ILLUSTRATION - VW and Ford Motors

-   1945 US Forces captured VW factory

    -   Offer it to Henry Ford for free
    -   FOr says no (bomb site joke)

-   US Government pass Factory to UK

    -   UK put Major IVan Hirst in charge

-   1948 UK offers to sell the company to Ford

    -   Henry Ford says 'no'
    -   Ford Chairman Ernest Breech says "I don't think what we're being offered here is worth a dime"
    -   VW passes back into German hands

-   1964 (16 years later)

    -   VW have produced over 1million cars
    -   Worldwide exporter of the beetle

-   Today,

    -   the Volkswagen group own Audi, Bentley, Bugatti, Lamborghini, Porsche, SEAT, Skoda, and Volkswagen!
    -   Annual income of around 13 billion Euros

> So why did Ford pass up on the deal of lifetime? No one really knows.
>
> The factory was a wreck for one. And the beetle was a symbol of Nazi Germany.
>
> But erhaps the biggest reason is that simply that VW didn't measure up to Ford's expectations.
>
> The boys at Ford thought that cars were for the rich and famous. They couldn't understand the appeal of the cheap and affordable 'car of the people'.
>
> Their unrealisitic expectations meant they missed what was right under their noses

Today we're looking at Mark 2v18 - 3v6. And in these verse we are going to see Jesus fail to measure up to people's expectation.

-   not what they we looking for in a messiah.

-   Henry Ford's expectations caused him to miss out

If we don't have the correct expectations of what JEsus can do, we'll miss what under our noses too! {Repeat}

We'll tackle today's passage like this:

1.  Unexpected practices (2v18-22)
2.  Unexpected Authority (2v23-28)
3.  Unexpected Kindness (3v1-6)
