# Sermon - Not What You Were Expecting? (Mark 2v18-3v6)

## 0. Introduction

### ILLUSTRATION - VW and Ford Motors

-   1945 US Forces captured VW factory

    -   Offer it to Henry Ford for free
    -   FOr says no (bomb site joke)

-   US Government pass Factory to UK

    -   UK put Major IVan Hirst in charge

-   1948 UK offers to sell the company to Ford

    -   Henry Ford says 'no'
    -   Ford Chairman Ernest Breech says "I don't think what we're being offered here is worth a dime"
    -   VW passes back into German hands

-   1964 (16 years later)

    -   VW have produced over 1million cars
    -   Worldwide exporter of the beetle

-   Today,

    -   the Volkswagen group own Audi, Bentley, Bugatti, Lamborghini, Porsche, SEAT, Skoda, and Volkswagen!
    -   Annual income of around 13 billion Euros

> So why did Ford pass up on the deal of lifetime? No one really knows.
>
> The factory was a wreck for one. And the beetle was a symbol of Nazi Germany.
>
> But erhaps the biggest reason is that simply that VW didn't measure up to Ford's expectations.
>
> The boys at Ford thought that cars were for the rich and famous. They couldn't understand the appeal of the cheap and affordable 'car of the people'.
>
> Their unrealisitic expectations meant they missed what was right under their noses

Today we're looking at Mark 2v18 - 3v6. And in these verse we are going to see Jesus fail to measure up to people's expectation.

-   not what they we looking for in a messiah.

-   Henry Ford's expectations caused him to miss out

If we don't have the correct expectations of what JEsus can do, we'll miss what under our noses too! {Repeat}

We'll tackle today's passage like this:

1.  Unexpected practices (2v18-22)
2.  Unexpected Authority (2v23-28)
3.  Unexpected Kindness (3v1-6)

# Unexpected Practices (1000)

Firstly then, unexpected practices chapter two verses 18 to 22.

Verse 18 sets the scene and provides the question. The question comes whilst John's disciples and the pharisees disciples are fasting.

The Bible says very little about fasting really but by the time of Jesus's on the scene it's a big deal.

You see there was a belief at the time that fasting didn't to show that you were dependant on God. It was believed that by Fasting you could be forgiven For sins You are unaware of. Since he didn't even know you had committed.

Clearly a questioner is concerned that Jesus' disciples are not fasting like everyone else.  Perhaps they think Jesus' disciples to are not as concerned about holiness and forgiveness as as John and of the pharisees seemed to be.

What makes Jesus' disciples so special?

Whatever the reason for the question, Jesus answers it with three illustrations.  The first is quite straightforward, the other two are a bit tricky.  Let's look at them each in turn.

The first illustration is in verses 19 and 20.  Take the look.

> Jesus answered "how can the guest of the bridegroom fast while he is with them? They cannot so long as they have him with them. But the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them and on that day they will fast."

His first point is actually quite simple.  Jesus says his disciples fasting now would be like someone fasting during a wedding reception.  Weddings are no time for fasting there are times are celebrating.

But if the bridegroom was violently and suddenly  Taken from the celebration been killed then there would be right To mourn and fast .

In the same way now is not the time for his disciples to fast, but to celebrate Jesus' Presence with them.

However when Jesus is arrested and taken away, violently put to death then his disciples will be right for his disciples to fast. But now is not that time.
So that's the first part Jesus answer.  His disciples on fasting because now's not the type of fasting it's the time for celebrating.

So love her so 21 and 22?  Surely Jesus isn't just giving advice full first century tailors and winemakers?  Is he?

Then he tell you a story which I think we'll help explain what Jesus is saying here:

How many of you can remember BlockBuster video stores? At their peak in 2004, BlockBuster hand over 9000 stores and about 60,000 employees in the U.S. alone.  Not to mention the UK and elsewhere .

Four years earlier reed Hastings the CEO of a struggling DVD mail order company called NetFlix also to sell his company to BlockBuster for as little as $50,000,000. He then returned BlockBuster help them make the move from a mail order to online streaming.

Apparently the then head of BlockBuster video literally laughed Hastings out of the boardroom. Nobody wanted to watch films online or so they thought!

BlockBuster couldn't see the the value in what NetFlix X was trying because they were comparing the company to the current way of doing things.  That was their first and last mistake.

By 2010 just six years later BlockBuster had lost over $1.1 billion and was now worth just 24,000,000.  Was NetFlix is now worth a whopping $13,000,000,000.

By comparing NetFlix X to blockbusters old way of doing things, They missed out on the opportunity of a lifetime and also lost everything they had to begin with.

And that's the Point Jesus's making here about new wine and patching cloths.

Jesus arrival marks a new chapter in god's salvation story.  And Lord Jesus has come to do is so unique that it can't be contained by Our expectations of what we think god's messiah should be like.

Just like if you try and put while it still fermenting into an old wine skin, the wine skin can't contain it.  The wind scheme will burst and you lose the wind right along with your old container.

In the same way Jesus is saying we need a new way of thinking for the new thing God is going.

If we try to gauge the value of Jesus life and teachings least our own expectations -where the first or 21st century expectations -will risk losing out on a once in a lifetime opportunity and the rest losing what we have right now.

So let me ask you why you expecting of Jesus today? Are comparing him to the world around you? If so you maaybe wondering why he doesn't promise to deliver the health, wealth and happiness that our society promises you?

Many are wondering, "Yes, but when are going to fix, my job or my family or my health or my finances, Jesus?"

If we constantly compare Jesus'to our expectations of what we think Jesus should do and what only be disappointed.

Instead we need to ask ourselves what Liesl Jesus expecting to do?  What is Jesus come to achieve on my behalf on the cross?  What is Jesus believe the gospel will do for me?

Jesus will not be contained by our human expectations he'll burst out of them like new wine from all the wine skins!

And like BlockBuster video will be left wondering "How did I miss the opportunity of a lifetime? How did i end up loosing everything?"

Jesus the unexpected practices remind us that he came to do something to no one was expecting.  He didn't come to offer us new rules for life.  He came to offer as new life to his death and resturn to life.

The question we have had asked ourselves if there are we willing to assess Jesus on his own terms?  The next to encounters showed just what happens when we don't.

# Unexpected Authority (2v23-28)

Second, unexpected authority chapter two verses 23 to 28.

Have you ever known someone who was a real bossy boots? I mean someone who just loved to Tell  people What to do?

I'm sure you can think of somebody?  A bother or sister?  Maybe one of your children?  A coworker?

The kind of the person who says "Hope you're going to wash that cup up?" When he's in your hand, just inches from the running tap.

But if you can't think of anyone, that's ok. Although it probably means everyone else is thinking about you!

When I left school I went to a Christian University in Dorset.  And there few people who could be real bossy boots.  Catch them on a bad day and it was...

-   Keep the noise down
-   Turn off the radio
-   Fine just turn it off
-   Don't kick the volley balls
-   You can't have hot food and salad from the canteen
-   The computer says your library book is overdue
-   Don't put your coffee cup on the pool table
-   no talking in the TV room!
-   Wash your cup up!

After a while it was exhausting.

Some people tried to confront them but they only started ranting about life in community.

Others tried to pander to the demands but it only made it worse. As the years went on many of these people have calmed down for the most part…  Probably.

Those kinds of people are a lot like the pharisees in mark's gospel.  Stalking about pointing out all the things other people are not doing right.

Just take a look at verse 23 and 24. Mark writes,

> One Sabbath Jesus was going through the grainfields, and as his disciples walked along, they began to pick some heads of grain.

So there's Jesus and his disciples, It may be on their way back from the synagogue, walking shoes and farmers' fields, and the disciples decided that if you had to grain to have as a snack whilst they're walking along.

When all of a sudden, verse 24, "The Pharisees said to him, “Look, why are they doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath?”"

woah!  Where did they come from?  It's like the pharisees were hiding in the fields just waiting to to jump out on the disciples and shout "ummm... what do you think you are doing?"

Reading this we might think the pharisees have a point.  The disciples shouldn't be eating somebody else's crops!

But the disciples weren't doing anything wrong.  Deuteronomy 23:25 says,

> "If you enter your neighbor’s grainfield, you may pick kernels with your hands, but you must not put a sickle to his standing grain."

The pharisees would have known this, that wasn't a problem.  They weren't annoyed at what the disciples were doing, but when they were doing it.

They were doing it on the Sabbath. A day when according to the 10 commandments people were to down tools and rest from their work.

And one other things there wasn't allowed to happen on the Sabbath was planting and harvesting crops.

But the pharisees were so strict in their rule keeping that even the smallest acts were considered work if they were done on the Sabbath.  Like picking grain for example.

Though it doesn't take much to see that this is the most painful form of legalism imaginable. Some in which Jesus keen to point.

Like every good preacher, Jesus' reply has three points.

Jesus makes his first point in verses 25 and 26.

It seems the pharisees are unwilling to believe that the law can have genuine exceptions.  It seems in their mind if you cut down 100 stalks of grain using tools or pluck one head of grain by hand, it doesn't matter. You're still harvesting grain and that's not allowed on the Sabbath.  No exceptions.

So Jesus retells and the story of David in 1 Samuel 21.  There David on the run from Saul enters the tent of meeting, lies to the priest in charge of the and convinces him to give David and his men bread which are under the law only the priests were allowed to eat.

Because David's actions whenever condemned Jesus use of this story is a bit of a trap.  On the one hand if the pharisees so concerned about the disciples picking corn on the Sabbath, they should be even more concerned about the actions of Israel's greatest king.  And essentially and Jesus and his disciples alone.

However if David actions when such a big deal after all the Jesus' disciples search for a roadside snack is insignificant.  And so they should leave Jesus and his disciples alone.

Either way there's no escape for the pharisees which doesn't require them abandoning their pursuit of legalism.

Jesus second point is in verse 27. He he more or less accuses them of completely misunderstanding the point of the Sabbath in the first place.

> "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath."

He reminds them. What Jesus is saying is that god did not create humans to slavishly serve the law, but created by the law to serve us.

God created the law to show us what true human freedom, what the good life, really looks like. its two OK we might fall short of that standard all the time, but that's a problem with that's not with the law.

And those problems with humanity are not fixed by creating more laws for of the slavishly Obey.

Instead we need to be transformed by the love of god available to us through Jesus death on the cross.

When that happens we'll soon find the will want to Obey the law out of love and thanks for the god who rescued us.

But who is Jesus to say that he's right and the pharisees are wrong?  Isn't this all just a matter of opinion?

Well if Jesus were just another moral teacher, then sure this is all a matter of opinion.

The Jesus doesn't leave that option open to us.  In verse 28 he gives his final reason.  He says:

> The Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.

I have often had people tell me if the Jesus never actually claimed to be god.  And maybe few road mark's gospel in a rush I could see how you might come to that conclusion.

But at little time and deep below the surface and you'll see that Jesus is claiming to be God all over the place.

And that's exactly what he's doing here.  When Jesus says that he is Lord even of the Sabbath, he is saying that he is the creator and author of all the Sabbath laws.

Who wrote the Sabbath laws?  God did.

Jesus is saying I decide what actions break the law and which don't.  Because there are only god and you're not.

The pharisees should be far more concerned about what questions Jesus might ask about how accurately their teaching their disciples. Than how well Jesus is teaching his.

The crunch point for us today, we more concern about the behaviour of others than ourselves?  Do we care more about other people behaving in a way which we think it appropriate to whether or not we're behaving in a way which Jesus says it appropriate.

If so then like the pharisees we've become legalist.  And like the pharisees legalist think we have a high view of the law, that if we are not half of people and spend too much time talking about love and grace of god and people's fears an excuse to do whatever they want.  But the truth is people who think that way actually have a low view of God's law.  Because they think it is achievable without grace.

If that's you that not only would struggle to understand why Jesus came to die in the first place.  You might find that the next time you go to Jesus complaining about the behaviour of his followers he turned round and says "What about you!"

Because as we are about to see next, if left unchecked, legalism will make as an enemy of the cross.
